Description of Project
======================

Mapping Expatriate Paris (MEP) is a digital humanities project at
Princeton University that uses Beachâ€™s archives to recreate the world of
the Lost Generation. MEP tracks the membership of the Shakespeare and
Company lending library to reveal what its members read and where they
lived. MEP also captures how the expatriate community in Paris changed
from the end of World War I to the German Occupation of France in 1940,
including its connections to French writers and artists.

This repository contains the primary assets of the project: encoded
transcriptions of a number of documents from the Sylvia Beach Papers
held in the Manuscripts Division of the Rare Books and Special
Collections department of the Princeton University Library: the
Borrowers Cards
<http://findingaids.princeton.edu/collections/C0108/c00584> and the
subscription log books (get link)

The assets from the Sylvia Beach Papers were digitized by the Princeton
University Library's Digital Photography Studio (get details, including
shooting parameters, conversion parameters, location of image files).
The image files are not available for download; see the finding aid for
more information about access to the primary materials.

Links to Websites
=================

-   The finding aid for the Sylvia Beach Papers:
    <http://findingaids.princeton.edu/collections/C0108/>

Description of Repository Organization
======================================

transcriptions/
---------------

The primary assets in this repository are the TEI-encoded transcriptions
of the lending-library cards, the subscription logs, and the
personography file. They can all be found in the `transcriptions/`
directory.

### cards/

The encodings of the cards were made by members of the MEP project from
diplomatic transcriptions of the original documents (see `raw/` below).
The encoded files are arranged alphabetically in sub-directories,
corresponding with the diplomatic transcriptions in `raw/`.

### logbooks/

Contains encodings of Beach's subscription logbooks from 1919 through
1941. Each logbook is encoded in a single file whose name indicates the
year of the source document.

### other transcriptions

#### personography.xml

A TEI-encoded file that captures full names, addresses, and other
information about library subscribers using the &lt;person&gt; element.

#### notebook.xml

Beach kept subscription information in several forms. This file is a
simplified, tabular capture of data found in X DOCUMENT.

raw/
----

The raw transcriptions of the cards were made by members of the MEP
project from the original documents and from high-resolution images
produced by Princeton University Library. They are arranged
alphabetically in sub-directories, corresponding with the arrangement of
the digital images.

db/
---

Contains files to support the loading of MEP data into an eXist XML
database.

### collection.xconf

Standard file declaring indexes to be defined on the MEP collection.

### build.xml

An ant file that may be used to load MEP data into an eXist database. It
will require customization before it may be used (see below).

Encoding Policy
===============

The encoding follows the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative. As
advocated by the TEI, we have created a specialized subset of the TEI P5
schema against which to validate our transcriptions. (We have created
separate customizations for the personography and the log books; these
customizations are described elsewhere in this document.)

The ODD file formally defining the schema, the schema itself (encoded in
the compact syntax of the RELAX-NG schema language), and an HTML file
describing the schema in human-readable form, are included in the
`schemas/` directory at the top of this repository.

The major encoded elements are as follows:

-   names
-   dates
-   addresses
-   bibliographic titles

Names
-----

The names of people and organizations are encoded using the
&lt;persName&gt; and &lt;orgName&gt; elements, respectively. Whenever
possible, &lt;persName&gt;s are supplied with a ref element containing
the id of a person captured in the MEP personography. Spelling,
abbreviations, and other irregularities in the transcribed text have not
been corrected.

Dates
-----

Dates are encoded using the &lt;date&gt; element. The when attribute is
used to encode a machine-readable form of the date; the transcribed text
is not corrected. When a date has been represented with a ditto mark
(indicating that it is the same as a date in the column above), the
ditto mark has been retained and encoded as a &lt;date&gt; with the
appropriate when attribute.

Addresses
---------

Addresses have been encoded using the &lt;address&gt; tag and its
sub-elements. When possible, streets, cities, and so on have been
encoded explicitly; otherwise, we have encoded addresses as a series of
&lt;addressLine&gt;s.

Bibliographic Titles
--------------------

Borrowed books and magazines are encoded with &lt;bibl&gt; elements.
Titles are encoded as &lt;title&gt;s; when present, authors are encoded
as &lt;author&gt;s. In the case of magazines, we have in some cases
attempted to capture volume and issue information, when present, in
&lt;biblScope&gt; elements, but the latter encoding is not consistent.

Additional Elements
-------------------

The transcriptions are linked to the digitized page images through use
of the &lt;facsimile&gt; element. Digital image files are encoded as
&lt;graphic&gt; representations of &lt;surface&gt;; page breaks
(&lt;pb&gt;s) are linked to the surfaces via the facs (facsimile)
attribute.

Installation and Dependency Information
=======================================

Importing data into eXist using ant tasks
-----------------------------------------

You must have Apache Ant 1.9.7 or greater installed to use this
facility. (It is known to work on OS X 10.11 with eXist 3.0RC)

-   change the property exist~home~ to the location of your
    exist installation.
-   change the xmldb.\* properties to match your installation
-   change the approot property to match your installation

Known Issues/Customization Points
=================================

None at this time
